Hi and welcome to Using Git LFS, which stands for Large File Storage!
What we're going to be doing in this video is getting around the problem of file
sizes, and all this starter content, and all that rubbish, and enabling something called large file support,
and eventually uploading our initial project to GitHub, so that our files
are, as this confirms, stored with Git LFS. Furthermore, we'll
also be using Unreal's built in source control toolbar, so we'll have a nice little green thing
there, and we'll be able to see how all that works, how we'll get our GitIgnore,
and it's going to be the easiest, cleanest, way yet of using source control. So if you've
not started source control yet, this is the time to get started for sure.
OK welcome back! So I'm disproportionately excited about this,
given that we're just talking about source control, but that's because using Git
Large File Storage is going to remove a lot of our problems. And this is, I would say, pretty much
the state of the art in terms of how we could be version controlling our
project. So let me show you a recipe for
setting up an Unreal project with Git LFS and your .gitignore and everything
you need, in a nice sensible sequence. But before we go through that, I just want to talk about
the pattern. So, so far, you've got a file system on your disk,
you've been staging files into a staging area, which is part
of the version control system. You'll be using some Git Client, the terminal,
or possibly SourceTree. SourceTree is what I recommend, because it's visual and it's what I'm using.
And then, once you've staged your files, you normally go immediately on to Commit them into
the repo, and it builds you a little tree structure like this. What we're going to do differently,
this will be the first time for some of you and not news at all to the veterans amongst you,
is that we're going to start pushing that data up to GitHub.com.
And that will just create a remote backup of your data, and
it will allow you and other people to collaborate on the same project. You can even both
work on the same project, even the same file, at the same time, and one of the reasons for GitHub
or Git as a version control system's success is that it's
so good at helping merge different people's work together. Now,
Git and GitHub are different things. Git is a different company, a different set of people, to GitHub.
GitHub is a place that you can host Git repositories, so is Bit
Bucket, for example, on the right here. And SourceTree, stroke, the Git Client,
stroke, the terminal are your client that you're using, and under the hood of all of
that is Git, which is the version control system we're using. Sometimes you'll hear the word
Source Control. I'm using the word Version Control, because we're not just versioning
source files here, text files but also binary assets like U Assets and maps
and stuff like that. Cool! So given that that's the general layout that we're
going for, the reason for LFS is that GitHub.com places 100 megabytes
per file limit on you, when you push to them, and it places a 1 gigabyte
per total repository limit on you. So we want to use their Large File
Storage, which luckily is built in and very easy to use, and you've already got a gigabyte
of large file storage built in, and then if you want more you can pay for it.
So what I'm going to do is give you the satisfaction of trying to do this yourself. Oh,
one more thing! Pulling is a concept that we haven't seen yet, we may see later on.
I just wanted to put it in for completeness. Pulling is going all the way from the thing that's stored on the Internet
back down to your file system, i.e. retrieving other people's work or your previous work.
So I want you to have a go at this, because you can always just delete the Unreal directory
and start again, when you watch my solution, but you'll learn a lot more by having a go yourself.
So setup your project with Git LFS. Here's an outline recipe!
Create the project using the Epic Games Launcher. Remember, by the way, that you can't
start the project with a number, but you could go SO5 for section 05, that's what I'm going to do.
Connect to Source Control in Unreal. There's a button up there in the
interface, towards the top-left of Unreal, it says Connect to Source Control. Go ahead and
do that and you can initialize the repo as a
GitRepo, and don't worry about the fact that Git is in Beta. Just have a go with
that! I'm giving you non-precise instructions on purpose, because I want you to experiment with this and learn it
yourself. Then, open up SourceTree, add a working copy.
So there''ll already be a Git repository, Unreal has just made that for you in step 2. So in
step 3, add a working copy to SourceTree, so that you can get a view on what's going on.
And then, I want you to enable LFS, Large File Support,
inside SourceTree. And then, when you've done that, I want you to track two types
of files, .uasset and .umap, and that will prevent SourceTree
from moaning, when you try and stage all of the first person
shooter content. Ah, I didn't tell you this, did I? When you create your project, I want you to make
a First Person Shooter project of type C++. You know how you get those
template projects? So first click C++, not Blueprint, and then, I want First
Person Shooter. That will come with a load of assets, and those assets are too big to be staged
without SourceTree moaning about the file sizes, but once we've enabled LFS and
tracked these files, you'll be fine. This all may sound like double Dutch to you, but I want you to try it
yourself, with this on the screen. Again, you can just delete the directory and start again if it doesn't
work out. Go ahead to GitHub.com, get yourself a GitHub.com
account, if you haven't got one already, and set yourself up a
plain repository. By that, I mean just don't put an initial commit, and
don't put a readme file in it, a readme.md. Then, connect
SourceTree to that GitHub repository and you can get a URL from GitHub that will allow you to do that,
and then, push and see if you can get that file, so that you've actually setup a Git
LFS repository and pushed it to GitHub. [Sighs] Phew, it sounds like a lot of work
doesn't it? But there's the recipe on the screen. The advanced among you, this will be a trivial. The people who've never
used SourceControl before, this will be a ridiculously hard challenge, especially
rather if you haven't been using SourceControl up to now. And then, there'll be
everybody in between. So don't beat yourself up if you can't do it, do congratulate yourself if you can do
it, and just have a go and then I'll show you the solution in a second.
OK welcome back! So with that recipe available, let's do what I said. So let's
create the game using the EPIC Games Launcher! So use at least version 4.12. If a later
version is out, when you come to this video, just select 4.12 here in this
Add previous Versions. So let's go ahead and launch Unreal Engine
and feel the excitement and anticipation of a brand new project
starting! Now, it's launching my Oculus and my Steam VR, we'll worry about that later!
Firstly, let's just focus on creating a new project of type C++,
and then, with the with the template First Person. I'm going to leave everything else as it is, apart from I'm
going to think carefully about my directory. I do want to put it in Users\Ben\Documents\
Repos\Unreal, which is this folder here, but I want to call it Section
05 Testing Grounds. Now I can't start with 05,
because it's going to complain that project names have to begin with an alpha numeric character. So I'm going to go
S05_TestingGrounds, like
that. Alright, that's where I'm going to put mine! I'm going to Create the Project,
and when we look over here, you'll see the folder. Now, I can while this is creating, by the
way, of course, I want to go back and just rename all these old guys S04,
S03, etc. just because I want the
consistency. And when I do that, it is actually going to break the bookmarks
that exist in SourceTree. Look, you see BattleTank! I can't find it, it says!
Just go ahead back to Unreal and find it. OK, so that's the
bookmarks fix, that's the bookmarks there on the left there. So you can rename Repos as the
bottom line of that. Now, Unreal should have finished creating this project by now. Cool! So
second step, connect to Source control in Unreal! So there's the source control button up there in
this toolbar here, the toolbar called well Toolbar, and then,
you click Source Control, Connect to Source Control, this will come up! Which
provider? We're going to use Git and not worry about the fact it's in Beta, but it does have a couple of issues being in
Beta. We'll work through those. And I'm just going to "Initialize the project with
Git", and it's going to add a .gitignore for us. So let's just do that!
Accept the Settings and now go and look at the file system. What has it done in this
TestingGrounds folder. Firstly, the TestingGrounds folder is better than the other ones. Remember we had to go
BattleTannk, BattleTank, and BuildingEscape, BuildingEscape? That was because of the naming,
I wanted to start with a number, so if you start with a letter like this we've solved it. So TestingGrounds
is simpler, flatter structure, no subdirectory, and it's made
a .gitignore for us. Look at that! I've associated this .gitignore with Atom, which is just
one of many texts readers, because it doesn't read very well in Notepad but there it is. So
that's Unreal's suggested .gitignore, probably a good bet. You can always adjust it
if we want to. OK and that is that. Now, if we go
to the step 3, we go to SourceTree. We go to File, Clone
or New, and we Add a Working Copy. What that means is we already have
a repository. What has happened here is that GitHub has actually set it... Sorry
not GitHub but Unreal has set us up a proper Git repo. We have
hidden files hidden here, so we can't see the .git file, but
it is a proper repo. So I just point it to that, I just point SourceTree to
that. Why are we using SourceTree at all? Because I want a different view on things, I don't want to
just have all of my source control in Unreal. So once I point it to that
and click Add, I've got a bookmark name of
S05_TestingGrounds. There it is, I'm going to move it into the Unreal group or folder here. So I've
got an Unreal group and a research group, etc. So there it is,
in fact, I don't think that went into Unreal, so let me just do it again and obsessively put it
in order. Great! So TestingGrounds, there it is! Now look, it has
already added all these files, but it hasn't, for some reason, added these
first person files. I'm not going to stage them now, I'm going to use this to my advantage. I'm going to make my
first commit, called Initial commit like that, and I'm just going to commit it.
And if we look at the Mater Branch then, that initial commit is just all the
basic stuff, including the .gitignore and some .ini files.
Then, we've got a whole bunch of other assets. You're going to have to do this first bit
inside SourceTree. You can't do it easily inside Unreal, because if you try and
submit to source control in Unreal, the silly thing doesn't realize it's got all these
FPS assets to check in, that's why I'm doing it in SourceTree. Now,
here are a bunch of files, that if I try and
select all these first person template files and stage them, look what happens. Oh,
one of them is bigger than 10 megabytes and it's going to complain. Well let's not say OK
this time, let's say let's do something about it, and that something is to go
to Repository, Get LFS, Initialize Repository. Just before you click it
though or if you have clicked it don't worry, just put Cancel. I want you to go to
Tools and Options, and I want you to just make sure that your version of Git,
so you go to the Git tab and Update Embedded Git. Just click that.
I'm using 2.8.1, which is the latest version, but I just want you to make sure your embedded Git,
the version of Git that SourceTree is using, is up to date. Cool!
Once it's up to date you can go Repository, Get LFS, Initialize Repository,
Start Using Git LFS. And what type of files
do you want to track? Well I'm going to do one of them like this. I'm just going to say Add. Now, how do you type
it? Well look at the list of hints. There's no stars, there's no dots, so if you want
to add a .uasset, then just type .uasset, and you see it put star dot
uasset. OK, I'm going to say Track Files just for .uassets, because I want to
show you there's another way of doing it. If I try and stage all this stuff again,
I'm going to get a complaint about this umap, in FirstPersonCPP/Maps/First
Person, etc. So let's go find that! And after
some scrolling up and down there it is! So what I'm showing you here is an alternative way of
adding things that should be tracked under LFS. You right-click, Track file type
in Git LFS. So what happens here is we can choose certain
types of files to be tracked by Git LFS. You can see that by going
to Git LFS, Track or Untrack Files. You can see it's added .umap and .uasset
now, they're the ones, the big ones we want to track. You can also see that
in the .gitattributes file that's what it's done. This is what determines how it
works, it's just put a couple of lines in the .gitattributes file. Great!
OK, so we are now tracking these two types of files. What this means
is, every other type of file will just get pushed to GitHub vanilla,
but the large files are going to go, if we look into GitHub
profile Settings, if you've got your account now, and you go to Billing, you'll
see here that you already have some Git LFS storage. You have a gigabyte of it
and you can purchase more by clicking the Purchase More button. Alright, so we're just deciding
what types of files go where. So let's Stage all that stuff.
It might take a second, because there's quite a few files,
and then, after this, by the way, we'll be able to do all our committing inside Unreal, without
even closing it. So that's pretty cool, right!  So I'm just clicking Stage All and just
waiting. There you go! Now I'm going to Commit, and I'm going to say Added...
Actually, I'm going to say Enabled
Git LFS & added
FPS content, and I'm going to Commit that!
Great, so now I have two commits! One is the initial commits, the other is where I've added LFS, etc.
The final thing we need to do, in this recipe, is go to GitHub.com,
go to the appropriate place, so in this case it's
Unreal Course, it's an organization I've created, or you can just put it in the root of your Git
Hub account. Let's not worry about it for now. Create yourself a new repository, I'm going to call it
05_TestingGrounds, and then, I"m
going to say "A Hunger-Games inspired FPS with large outdoor terrains", etc.
apart from I don't want the ampersand to look like that, so I'll write the word "and".
And it's going to be public. We're not going to initialize it with
a README or a .gitignore. Unreal's already provided that .gitignore, remember? There it is!
And we don't want a README, because then we have two repositories, both
that need merging, and we could do without that for now. We'll cover README's and markdown in a separate
video. So I'm going to create the repository online. It does that, it's a blank repository
with no commits, and it gives you two ways of finding the URL, HTTPS, which
will be much easier for you, or SSH, if you bother to setup
SSH on your SourceTree. I'm not going to cover that in this course, that's more than we need. I do have that kind of
access, because I can't be bothered to mess around with passwords and user names. You probably
just want to use HTTPS, and then type your user name and password. So
back at SourceTree you go to Repository and Repository Settings,
and then, under the Remote tab you can add a Remote. Now, I'm going to
call it GitHub. A lot of people call it Origin, I just like it to be called GitHub, it's very explicit where it's
going, and then, I put the URL in there, I leave the rest, and say OK.
Now, it'll ask you to authenticate, at this point, if you're using HTTPS.
I'm using SSH, which you can read all about on the web, how to set that up, it's a little bit involved.
Just turn off my bookmarks on the left, and now, I can Push.
Push, click the master branch. It's going to
commit my master branch locally, to a Remote Branch called master.
If I click Push now and Show Full Output, let's have a look at what it's doing!
It's pushing this repository up to GitHub.com.
Now look, because these files are stored in Git LFS, it now starts saying there's 53
files I'm sending that are under LFS storage, and you can see
how big they are and how far it's getting. So this is a good indication that it is using
LFS properly, which is great! If we go to GitHub on the web now,
go to TestingGrounds, we may or may not have
anything there yet. Let's have a look, refresh,
nope not yet, because it's not finished! So we just come back to SourceTree, and you can
see the precise progress of your upload. Now this, of course, on your
broadband may take a while, depending how fast your broadband is. Eighty-five
megabytes, I mean I've got about a 20 megabyte upload, and this is going to take couple of
minutes. So if you're on a much slower upload it could take you 20 minutes, so go and have a cup of
tea or whatever you do in your country to relax while it finishes.
There you go it's finished, it's all good, "Completed successfully", and
now, if we go back to GitHub and refresh,
there we have it! We have our source files! Now, if you go and look at some of the source
files, like click on Source... Not Source, actually, maybe
Content, and then, FirstPerson, and Character, Mesh,
anything that's got a .uasset, and you click into it, go and find yourself a .uasset,
you can see here, "Stored with Git LFS". You can see that that's the confirmation
that it definitely has stored those files, under the Large File System storage.
So congratulations! You are now able to store large things like starter packs
and larger binary files with GitHub, and, if necessary, you can purchase
extra storage but a gigabyte is going to be enough for this section, I hope.
So well done, and I'll see you in the next video!